reference/tools: update DM-worker connection switch in DM (#1566)
pingcap/docs: dev/reference/tools/data-migration/cluster-operations.md

    6. Restart and verify data migration task.

> ## Switch DM-worker connection between upstream MySQL instances

Reviewer: - The following section is a separate file in docs-cn. Please check https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/1871 and update.
- Suggest putting it under "Manage the DM Cluster". Please confirm this with @csuzhangxc.

When the upstream MySQL instance that DM-worker connects to needs a downtime maintenance or when the instance crashes unexpectedly, you need to switch the DM-worker connection to another MySQL instance within the same replication group.

> **Note:**
>
> - You can only switch the DM-worker connection to a instance within the same master-slave replication cluster.
> - The MySQL instance to be newly connected to must have the binlog required by DM-worker.
> - DM-worker must operate in the GTID sets mode. That is to say that you must specify `enable_gtid=true` when you deploy DM using DM-Ansible.
> - The connection switch only supports the following two scenarios. Strictly follow the procedures for each scenario. Otherwise, you might have to re-deploy the DM cluster according to the newly connected MySQL instance and perform the data replication task all over again.

For more details on GTID set, refer to [MySQL documentation](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/replication-gtids-concepts.html#replication-gtids-concepts-gtid-sets).

> ### Switch DM-worker connection behind virtual IP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Switch DM-worker connection via virtual IP
```

> When DM-worker connects the upstream MySQL instance behind virtual IP (VIP) and if you switch the VIP connection to another MySQL instance, you switch the MySQL instance actually connected to DM-worker with the upstream connection address unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When DM-worker connects the upstream MySQL instance via a virtual IP (VIP), switching the VIP connection to another MySQL instance means switching the MySQL instance actually connected to DM-worker, without changing the upstream connection address.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > Make necessary changes on DM in this scenario. Otherwise, when you switch the VIP connection to another MySQL instance, DM might connect to the new and old MySQL instances at the same time in different connections. In this situation, the binlog replicated to DM is not consistent with other upstream status that DM receives, causing unpredictable anomalies and even data damage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Make necessary changes to DM in this scenario. Otherwise, when you switch the VIP connection to another MySQL instance, DM might connect to the new and old MySQL instances at the same time in different connections. In this situation, the binlog replicated to DM is not consistent with other upstream status that DM receives, causing unpredictable anomalies and even data damage.
```

> For this VIP to direct at a new MySQL instance, follow these procedures:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To switch the instance that DM-worker connects to via the VIP to a new MySQL instance, perform the following steps:
```

Author: What about `To switch one upstream MySQL instance (when DM-worker connects to it via a VIP) to another, perform the following steps:`?

1. Use the `query-status` command to get the GTID sets (`relayBinlogGtid`) corresponding to the binlog that relay log has replicated from the old MySQL instance. Mark the sets as `gtid-W`.
2. Use the `SELECT @@GLOBAL.gtid_purged;` command on the new MySQL instance to get the GTID sets corresponding to the purged binlogs. Mark the sets as `gtid-P`.
3. Use the `SELECT @@GLOBAL.gtid_executed;` command on the new MySQL instance to get the GTID sets corresponding to all successfully executed transactions. Mark the sets as `gtid-E`.
4. Make sure that the following conditions are met. Otherwise, you cannot switch the DM-work connection to the new MySQL instance:

>     - `gtid-W` contains `gtid-P`. `gtid-P` might be empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `gtid-W` contains `gtid-P`. `gtid-P` can be empty.
```

    - `gtid-E` contains `gtid-W`.
5. Use `pause-relay` to pause relay.
6. Use `pause-task` to pause all running tasks of data replication.
7. Change the VIP for it to direct at the new MySQL instance.
8. Use `switch-relay-master` to tell relay to execute the master-slave switch.
9. Use `resume-relay` to make relay resume to read binlog from the new MySQL instance.
10. Use `resume-task` to resume the previous replication task.

> ### Change address of upstream MySQL instance that DM-worker connects to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Change the address of the upstream MySQL instance that DM-worker connects to
```

> To change the configuration information of DM-worker so that DM-worker connects to a new MySQL instance in the upstream, follow these procedures:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make DM-worker connect to a new MySQL instance in the upstream by modifying the DM-worker configuration, perform the following steps:
```

1. Use the `query-status` command to get the GTID sets (`relayBinlogGtid`) corresponding to the binlog that relay log has replicated from the old MySQL instance. Mark this sets as `gtid-W`.
2. Use the `SELECT @@GLOBAL.gtid_purged;` command on the new MySQL instance to get the GTID sets corresponding to the purged binlogs. Mark this sets as `gtid-P`.
3. Use the `SELECT @@GLOBAL.gtid_executed;` command on the new MySQL instance to get the GTID sets corresponding to all successfully executed transactions. Mark this sets as `gtid-E`.
4. Make sure that the following conditions are met. Otherwise, you cannot switch the DM-work connection to the new MySQL instance:

>     - `gtid-W` contains `gtid-P`. `gtid-P` might be empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `gtid-W` contains `gtid-P`. `gtid-P` can be empty.
```
